.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
.TH IPE 1 "September 29, 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
ipe \- drawing editor for creating figures in PDF or EPS formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipe
[ \fIQt options\fP ] [ -sheet \fIstylesheet\fP ] \fIfilename\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION

Ipe is a program that supports making small figures for inclusion into
LaTeX documents as well as making multi-page PDF presentations.

.PP
This manual page only documents the command line options and
environment variables.  Full documentation for using Ipe can be found
in HTML and PDF format; see below.

.TP
\fB\-sheet\fR \fIstylesheet\fP
add the Ipe style sheet in the indicated file to all newly created Ipe
documents.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

Ipe respects the following environment variables:

.TP
\fBIPELATEXDIR\fP
the directory where Ipe runs Pdflatex.

.TP
\fBIPEFONTMAP\fP
the complete path of the font map, describing where Ipe can find the
14 standard PDF fonts.

.TP
\fBIPEDEBUG\fP
set this to 1 for debugging output.

.TP
\fBIPEDOCDIR\fP
the directory containing the Ipe documentation.

.TP
\fBIPELETPATH\fP
a list of directories where Ipe looks for ipelets. Directories are
separated by ":" on Unix, and by ";" on Windows.

.SH AUTHOR
Otfried Cheong

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.ad l
Please report bugs using Ipe bugzilla at
.I "http://tclab.kaist.ac.kr/ipe/bugzilla.html"

.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
Ipe is documented fully in
.IR "The Ipe Manual". 
